The Joe Rogan experience. What you, one of the things.
You talked about was that there was this transference,
like the Eucharist eventually became a placebo. Do you, do you,
do you think that, that, what do you think it was initially,
do you think it was a psychedelic mushroom?
So that's Allegro certainly thought that, right. Uh, John.
Marco Allegro author of the sacred mushroom in the scroll.
Uh, so he, he releases that book in 1970 and he claimed that, uh,
Christianity is the guys for a near Eastern fertility cult. And it's,
I mean, I think it's very interesting,
but there aren't many linguists who support the proposition.
Right. There's, there's a lot of people that disagree with them pretty heavily,
right.
From, from like a purely linguistic perspective. It's uh, I mean,
to explain it briefly. So did you read this sacred mushroom in the cross?
Did you, do you read it several times? Did.
You read the dead sea scrolls in the Christian myth.
As well? Yeah, that's.
The one that was, so the Catholic church bought out the original one. Right.
And they,
it was very difficult to get ahold of for the longest time he had to buy copies
of it.
I've heard rumors to that effect. Yes. And then he.
So he comes out with the second book,
the dead sea scrolls and the Christian myth. W what,
what did D knowing as much as you know about language, like w what did you,
did you feel like he made leaps?
Did you feel like he made these connections that maybe were based on speculation.
It's pure philology, right. So it's,
it's word games and things that only linguists. I mean, I,
I think it's incredible that people who aren't linguists can actually read that
it's really, really difficult to read sacred mushroom in the cross.
But the basic premise is that the new Testament written in Greek has this
Semitic substratum. So underneath the Greek, uh, the, the,
the author of the gospel writers and,
and Paul are actually referring to different terms in Hebrew or Aramaic.
And that these terms have an intern come from the Sumerian,
which any linguists would say is a language isolate,
that there is no real relationship between Sumerian and the Indo-European
languages like Greek and the Semitic.
So the premise of the argument is something that most linguists don't accept,
however, and, and Kroll ruck has written the afterward to, uh,
one of the additions you probably have of sacred mushroom in the cross.
And he gets into some complex theories about psycho linguistics and this
interesting idea that just because they, they aren't related,
there are certain words, certain names, certain vocabulary,
like plant definitions,
which w which would carry across the different languages.
And I find that somewhat interesting. But when you, when you dig into the,
the words that Alegra was recreating,
he's he places an asterix actually next to these words,
because they can't be corroborated by the ancient texts.
So some of these Sumerian words, he, he straight up hypothesizes as existing.
Uh, but they're, they're not,
they can't really be found in the existing tablets. Uh, so it's,
it's hard to correlate some of those meanings he'd he draws down from the
Sumerian, but that said, he makes very interesting claims, for example,
like in one Corinthians 22,
there's this interesting line where he says about the, we, we preach Christ.
Crucified is, um,
is a skandalon for the Jews and a folly for the Greeks.
And skandalon in Greek means like, um, a bolt or a snare, like a trap,
and Allegro ties it to like a, a tickler, uh, in, in Aramaic,
which is like the, what he calls the, the bolt mushroom and in Sumerian cush,
the gala. And so he's saying that Paul is actually telling the Jews that,
you know, the, the Christ crucified is a mushroom instead of a skandalon,
it's like a, like a code word, like the skandalon is a mushroom.
And then for the Greeks, he says, it's a folly, which is Moya in, in Greek,
which actually means Mandrake, which is another psychedelic plant.
So there's all this, this different, you know, wordplay going on,
but it's really hard to tease out any physical forensic evidence for this stuff,
which.
Was what I was, what was a Legros position.
If I recall correctly that the sacred mushroom was a Amanita muscarinic.
Yeah.
That was even the cover of his book was a photo of [inaudible].
And that, and that's where I have a, I think Alegra did amazing work,
but that's, that's one area where I, where I have a problem with,
with Amanita muscarinic as the, as the psychedelic of choice in,
in early Christianity,
because in sh in shamonic cultures where I'm a muscarinic is
used, it's recognized that the potion that the mushroom is much more effective
after it's been passed through a human body,
or indeed through the body of a reindeer and emerged in your end. And so,
so the, the, those, those, uh,
shamanistic cultures of Siberia use Amanita mascaras by
drinking it in the urine of a shaman who has previously consumed the mushroom.
And I don't see a lot of evidence for that in early Christianity.
And it's why I like, uh, the work that Brian has done, uh,
looking at the really hard evidence for psychedelics in early Christianity,
which are not, which are not in this case. I'm need [inaudible] if I'm correct.
Brian, isn't the.
Speculation about Amanita mascara that it's seasonable. Uh, it's it's,
it's seasonal, it's also genetically variable. Like there's, there's,
there's different species of like much like different fruits tastes differently.
There's different versions of the eMoney miscarry that have more psychedelic
compounds in them.
And then there's all sorts of ways of preparing them that we've completely lost.
Isn't it? Am I getting this wrong? Cause I've only had one,
how many of them were scary experience and it wasn't very convincing. Hmm.
Yeah. And this is, this is often, often the case,
but I I'm told I've not had the experience myself,
but I'm told that if you can bear the idea of drinking the Sherman's urine after
he, or she has consumed the Amanita [inaudible]
, you will have a really powerful journey, but you don't want to, Sharmane.
Just laughing hysterically after you drink. Absolutely. The jokes on you.
Stupid. Yeah. There's, there's also so many correlations between, uh,
the Amanita mascara and Santa Claus and Santa Claus to shamans there's.
Some red wine. Yeah. There's.
Also the, the, you know, the bag, the toys, the,
the fact that they would drive them on, on these, uh, coniferous trees,
the fact that this,
these mushrooms have this microrisal relationship with coniferous trees,
where they, they tend to grow under pine trees,
which is the tree that we use for Christmas sheath for the fact that they're
bright red,
like a toy that is in a package waiting for a child to open it up.
It's there's so many of these weird connections, the colors,
the fact that reindeer, or with Santa Claus,
the fact these reindeer fly through the heaven. I mean,
it's that caribou are notoriously attracted to, uh,
Amanita miscarry a mushrooms. In fact,
people that have had psychedelic rituals and gone outside to urinate have talked
about caribou,
knocking them over to try to get to their urine and caribou are reindeer,
and they have been observed eating these things.
So they have this weird relationship.
All those things are together connected in some sort of a strange way.
And there's also a history of shamonic rituals being outlawed in
Siberia. And the way they got around it was they would come through the chimney,
which is just crazy. They would, they would climb onto people's roofs and,
and slide down the chimney to, uh, deliver the mushrooms. It's.
Just another,
another example of the way that our culture takes an ancient historical truth
and completely castrated and turns and turns it into Santa Claus.
You know, whereas what we're at,
what we're actually dealing with are profound experiences in deeply altered
states of consciousness. It's also.
This information seems to have been lost fairly recently,
because if you go back to the early 19,
fifties and forties in look at birthday or Christmas cards that Christmas
cards and depictions of Christmas,
almost always contained elves and Amanita mascara mushrooms,
the Amanita miscarry,
a mushroom was synonymous with Christmas for some strange reason.
Have you ever seen those old? Yeah, yeah. It's crazy. Right? Like what is that.
A little bit the, the, the fairytale books too. You can't, you can't avoid the,
the Amanita yeah. Everywhere you look,
which is why I think Allegro was also interested writing in 1970 and studying it
in the fifties and sixties. I think that's why he glommed onto the Amanita, but.
Chin unconvincing, mushroom,
like the people that I know that have experienced it,
and in terms of a psychedelic ritual, it's just,
I don't know anybody who's really blown their brains out with it. No. And.
And Gordon Wasson also thought it was the, the ingredient behind Soma as well.
He writes a book about this in 1968, Soma divine mushroom of immortality. That,
that, that was his guest to, for, for Soma, but.
Was experienced with siliciden,
which is so universally regarded as being effective.
That's why it's so confusing.
I always found that strange too, to be honest. So, so, so Wasson, I mean,
to explain where this, where this comes from,
Watson has this incredible experience with Maria Sabina in 1955 in Wahaca,
Mexico. And when he consumes the SA we think philosophy Mexicana,
and, uh, he is catapulted to the heavens and he has this vision, uh, that,
that he describes as the realest thing he's ever experienced, uh,
under the influence of the, of the psilocybin and the thought occurs to him.
He writes later in 1957 in life magazine, he says that the,
could it be the case that the divine mushrooms are in fact,
the answer behind the ancient mysteries,
which is why he then went and started looking at the Amanita perhaps, um,
or eventually ergot, which is where I pick up the scent. Uh,
at some point in his correspondence with Albert health MUN, they, they together,
uh, began focusing on ergot, like we said,
because it's so common and so natural, but so highly toxic to,
uh, and Albert claimed to have this experience with it. And so for,
for years and years after teaming up with Carl ruck,
they were convinced that ERCOT had had to somehow be involved. Episodes.
Of the Joe Rogan experience are now free on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st to December 1st,
they're going to be available everywhere, but after December 1st,
they will only be available on Spotify, but they will be free.
That includes the video. The video will also be there. It'll also be free.
That's all we're asking. Just go download Spotify much. Buh-bye.